# Reflective Essay 

I do not think it would be an understatement to say that I have had more going on over the past eight months than at any other time in my life. I had a heavy course load in the winter term and spent several long nights completing homework just before deadlines. I spent a significant amount of time preparing a manuscript detailing my research in my program. I did an exchange to Japan for two weeks, learned a programming language, went to Florida, presented two presentations at a conference in South Africa, presented a poster in San Diego, launched a balloon, and have almost rebuilt an entire radar. And found out that my wife and I are expecting a baby in several months! 

Fitting in so many things came with some tradeoffs. It was really exciting to juggle so many experiences. I got to travel to new places, experiencing some of the culture and taking in the sights. Often this came with jet lag. It also came with a front-load of responsibilities in preparation, and a backload of tasks upon my return. I originally set out to manage my time responsibly and avoid late nights for completing homework. I let myself fail on this point, and rather fell back on my time-tested strategy of starting late and working until completed. I had two sleepless nights this way. I do this to avoid unproductive time when the deadline is far away, and instead capitalize on my enhanced productivity when a deadline is right around the corner. However, I regret not being intentional about practicing better time management.  

Back to the tradeoffs. Very candidly, I decided to trade off working on my goals to enjoy my new experiences and the last few months of sleeping on my own schedule. I achieved my goal of learning a new programming language early on, but I admit this was a goal I was passionate about and would have completed no matter what. My coworkers got a little sick of me talking about Rust so much when I was working on my little project. The other goals I was less intentional about completing. I have thought a lot about my future (I feel like that’s a given when a baby is on the way?) but haven’t formalized my thoughts in a document. I have mixed feelings about this. On one hand, I know where I feel about where I want to be in life, and I am confident in my ability to judge opportunities against my wants. On the other hand, I wish I had taken the time and the advice of my mentor to write something out. My goal of getting more sleep was also something I was lackluster about. I am prone to staying up late, and I have not been intentional about creating a sleep schedule and sticking to it. I did succeed in hitting my sleep goal once my most time-consuming semester was completed, but I only consider that a moderate success. I wish I had attempted to change my patterns and seen how successful I could be with that. Frankly, I am not sure what would have been better preparation for having a child – my sleep schedule would be out the window anyway; would it have just made the transition more difficult? I guess I can ponder that question when I am up in the middle of the night trying to get the baby to sleep. 

My mission statement still holds true to my base feelings. My graduate degree so far has furthered my expertise at SuperDARN and has increased my satisfaction with the work I have done. I have had the opportunity to travel to two scientific workshops and discuss my work with established scientists, which I found extremely fruitful. I have ideas for how to improve the scientific product that SuperDARN provides that I am excited to implement as a result. I believe I am uniquely qualified in our team with my background in both technical radar operations and scientific theory to advance the capabilities of the SuperDARN community. I have learned that I am happiest when I can take on a project, learn from the ground up, and be competent and confident in my knowledge. This is why I was so happy with my experience programming a project in Rust.  

Overall, I am content with the person I am right now and excited for what the future has in store. I am looking forward to continuing to learn and develop expertise in new areas, both professionally and personally. I managed a large workload and busy schedule over this course and am happy to be wrapping up and moving on to new experiences. 
